README.md, before:

# DSA_Python
Mastering Data Structures and Algorithms in Python 🐍 | Topic-wise problems, solutions, and explanations to crack coding interviews and build strong fundamentals.

## 🐍 Data Structures & Algorithms in Python

Welcome to my **Data Structures and Algorithms (DSA)** repository, where I’m solving DSA problems in **Python** to build a strong foundation in problem-solving, enhance my coding skills, and prepare for technical interviews.

---

## 🚀 What's Inside?

This repository is organized by topic. Each folder contains:

- ✅ **Problem Statement**
- 💡 **Approach / Explanation**
- 🧪 **Python Code**
- 📈 **Time & Space Complexity Analysis**

Whether you're learning DSA or preparing for interviews, this repo aims to help reinforce core concepts through clean, well-documented code.

---

## 📁 Folder Structure
├── Arrays/
│ ├── two_sum.py
│ ├── kadane_algorithm.py
│ └── README.md
├── Strings/
│ ├── valid_anagram.py
│ └── README.md
├── LinkedList/
├── Trees/
├── Graphs/
├── DynamicProgramming/
├── README.md



Each topic contains multiple problems and detailed solutions. Some problems include multiple approaches for comparison.

---

## 🧠 Topics Covered

- Arrays & Strings
- Hash Maps & Sets
- Linked Lists
- Stacks & Queues
- Recursion & Backtracking
- Trees & Binary Trees
- Binary Search Trees
- Heaps & Priority Queues
- Graphs (DFS, BFS, Union-Find)
- Sorting & Searching
- Sliding Window
- Two Pointer Technique
- Greedy Algorithms
- Divide & Conquer
- Bit Manipulation
- Dynamic Programming

---

## 📘 References

- [LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/)
- [GeeksforGeeks](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/)
- [NeetCode](https://neetcode.io/)
- [Striver’s SDE Sheet](https://takeuforward.org/)
- [InterviewBit](https://www.interviewbit.com/)

---

## 📌 How to Use

1. **Clone the repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/dsa-python.git
   cd dsa-python


📈 Progress Tracker

| Topic               | Problems Solved | Status         |
| ------------------- | --------------- | -------------- |
| Arrays              | 0/20           | 🔄 In Progress |

Commit message:

Enhance README.md by adding a contributions section and a personal connection section, and format the progress tracker header.

README.md, after:

# DSA_Python
Mastering Data Structures and Algorithms in Python 🐍 | Topic-wise problems, solutions, and explanations to crack coding interviews and build strong fundamentals.

## 🐍 Data Structures & Algorithms in Python

Welcome to my **Data Structures and Algorithms (DSA)** repository, where I’m solving DSA problems in **Python** to build a strong foundation in problem-solving, enhance my coding skills, and prepare for technical interviews.

---

## 🚀 What's Inside?

This repository is organized by topic. Each folder contains:

- ✅ **Problem Statement**
- 💡 **Approach / Explanation**
- 🧪 **Python Code**
- 📈 **Time & Space Complexity Analysis**

Whether you're learning DSA or preparing for interviews, this repo aims to help reinforce core concepts through clean, well-documented code.

---

## 📁 Folder Structure
├── Arrays/
│ ├── two_sum.py
│ ├── kadane_algorithm.py
│ └── README.md
├── Strings/
│ ├── valid_anagram.py
│ └── README.md
├── LinkedList/
├── Trees/
├── Graphs/
├── DynamicProgramming/
├── README.md



Each topic contains multiple problems and detailed solutions. Some problems include multiple approaches for comparison.

---

## 🧠 Topics Covered

- Arrays & Strings
- Hash Maps & Sets
- Linked Lists
- Stacks & Queues
- Recursion & Backtracking
- Trees & Binary Trees
- Binary Search Trees
- Heaps & Priority Queues
- Graphs (DFS, BFS, Union-Find)
- Sorting & Searching
- Sliding Window
- Two Pointer Technique
- Greedy Algorithms
- Divide & Conquer
- Bit Manipulation
- Dynamic Programming

---

## 📘 References

- [LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/)
- [GeeksforGeeks](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/)
- [NeetCode](https://neetcode.io/)
- [Striver’s SDE Sheet](https://takeuforward.org/)
- [InterviewBit](https://www.interviewbit.com/)

---

## 📌 How to Use

1. **Clone the repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/dsa-python.git
   cd dsa-python


## 📈 Progress Tracker

| Topic               | Problems Solved | Status         |
| ------------------- | --------------- | -------------- |
| Arrays              | 0/20            | 🔄 In Progress |
 
## 🙌 Contributions & Feedback
This is a personal learning repository. If you have suggestions, corrections, or ideas to improve the explanations or structure, feel free to open an issue or pull request.

### 🌐 Connect with Me

🔗 LinkedIn : [text](https://www.linkedin.com/in/muhammad-manan1122/)

If you found this helpful, don’t forget to ⭐ star the repo!
